https://open.lib.umn.edu/mediaandculture/chapter/11-2-the-evolution-of-the-internet/

An overview of the history of the internet from its beginnings in the 1960s to the present is given in the article "11.2 The Development of the Internet - Understanding Media and Culture." According to the article, government organisations and academic institutions first used the internet as a modest computer network to exchange data and resources. As more computers and networks were added, new [[technology]] was created to enable quicker and more effective communication and data transfer, and as a result, it grew in size and complexity over time. The TCP/IP protocol, which is the foundation of the internet's communication system, was developed by Vint Cerf and Robert Kahn, two significant figures in the history of the internet. The article points out that as the internet became commercialised in the 1990s, there was a sharp rise in online activity and user numbers that has persisted to the present day.


“The use of e-mail grew in large part because of later commercial developments, especially America Online, that made connecting to e-mail much easier than it had been at its inception.”

-   Connecting to email was not a simple process in the early days of the internet. It was difficult for most people to access to email servers since they required technical knowledge and equipment. This changed in the 1990s with the introduction of for-profit online services like America Online (AOL). By offering a user-friendly interface that allowed individuals to connect to email servers with only a few clicks, AOL made connecting to email significantly simpler. This improved the usability of email for a larger audience, including non-techies. As a result, email usage skyrocketed in popularity and became into a commonplace communication medium.